There are some things you can do with
grid that you may not necessarily
think about in terms of design.
You just don't even realize that
you can do these kinds of things.
So one of these tricks that I just love
is the ability to overlap grid cells.
And so I wanted to go through how we would
go about overlapping grid cells here.
So in 8A, let's look at these overlapping
grid cells and figure out how they work.
So if we open up that CodePen, You'll
see here that we have four of our
lovely planet pictures, so awesome.
And underneath of those,
we have captions that go with them, right?
Saturn and the moons, Jupiter, we have
Triton and Neptune, Pluto and Charon.
Okay, and
these are marked up as these are marked
up as figures just as we saw them
earlier so we have a figure.
The figure has two children it has an
image and it has a figure caption, yeah?
Okay, so it's always good to take a look
at your structure of your HTML and
start thinking about where we could have
parents and children as we do our layouts.
So here, our figure contains two children.
What I'd like to do is I'd like to put
my caption on top of this image, okay?
So rather than having
the caption underneath,
I want that caption on top of the image.
So let's go through how we
would make that magic happen.
So first of all, I've got this
set to a min width of 600 pixels,
which sets This is up with this
layout of the two by two images.
I'm just gonna say we want
this to happen at this point.
So I'm gonna put this inside of the media
query, but obviously you could have put
this outside of the media query and
then it would work throughout your design.
I'm gonna say my fig caption,
let's change the way this look.
So we'll give it a background
color of 001219, okay?
Which is a lovely shade of black.
We'll set the text color to white, so
that we can actually read it and
maybe we'll give
it a little bit of padding,
like one rem, okay?
So actually,
that looks cool just like that [LAUGH].
It's not a bad look, but that is just
the starting point of our process.
So now what I'm going to do is
I'm gonna take my figure and
I'm gonna To set it to display for grid.
Grid, it will have two children and
it will have the image and
it will have the figure caption.
For the figure itself,
we'll say display grid and
then we'll say grid template columns 1fr
because there's only one column, okay.?
And then I'm going to say my grid
template rows are 70% 30%.
So I'm not using something like pixels or
fr or whatever rims or
anything else for my temple rows,
I'm just using percents.
Whatever space is available,
assign 70% of it to the top row and
30% of it to the bottom row,
whatever that happens to be.
Okay, now we need our image to
stretch across all of the rows.
So what would my value be for grid row?
I need my image to stretch all the way
across, be the whole height of the figure.
So all of my rows,
what are my numbers for grid row?
>> 1 to -1?
>> 1 to -1, sure?
I think that works.
Although I'm a little concerned
about where my figure caption went.
So I'm gonna change it to 1 to 3.
I'm still concerned where my figure
caption went, but that's okay.
We'll just continue on and
then I'm going to say my image is
going to be in the grid column.
I know where my it went, 1/2, okay?
And I have a note here in my notes.
It may look like the captions disappeared,
but don't panic.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Don't panic, all right?
Okay, so next we'll have the figure
caption display the same column and
in the bottom row only.
So for my fig caption, make sure
you have a style for that up here,
so we can just continue to add to that
I am going to say, grid column 1,
2, I actually want it in
the same column as my image.
And my grid row will be 2/3.
There it is.
See how it's overlapping the image now?
See how it took a bite
out of all those images?
Okay, so it looks good.
What would look better if
we add some opacity of 0.7,
make it a little bit see through.
Nice, and so then the last problem that
we have here is that the HTML inside
of each of these captions,
inside of the caption, we have an h2 and
we have a paragraph both of which have
some default margin associated with them.
And that is what's causing this weird
cut off of the text here on the page.
So, what I can say here then,
in my CSS is Figcaption
greater than signed star.
In other words, for all of the children
of figure caption that would
be the H2 in the paragraph,
we wanna set the margin to 0.5 rem.
So we're just gonna tighten up
those margins a little bit, and
then we'll pull the text
here up onto the screen.
So pretty, what do you think?
So we didn't have to use
absolute positioning and
relative positioning because we all know
how that makes your brains explode, yes?
We can just use overlapping grid cells,
it's a much nicer world to live in, okay?
Any questions on this?
>> When you get smaller
towards that 600 pixel mark.
>> Yep.
>> Everything kind of gets shifted down.
If you go a little bit bigger.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Right there.
>> Okay.
>> Add padding to the bottom so
that both of those are centered
in that caption box.
>> You could.
Probably what's causing this issue right
now is that our grid template rows are set
to 70%, 30%.
So we could change that to 60, 40.
Right?
>> Yeah.
>> And maybe what we need to do,
because this is now, so this is 600, and
then maybe by 700,
it's a little bit too much, right?
So what we could do then is we can
do another media query, exactly.
So we could say @media min-width 700px.
And then we could say for our figure.
And this may be the only thing
in this media query, figure.
Grid template rows will go to 70 30.
There's nothing that
says you can't do that.
You don't have to have a million billion
styles on every media query, right?
So we could tweak it so
that it works there until it goes there.
And the only crazy people who sit here and
do this on websites are us.
So normal people won't do this,
and it'll be fine.